<!-- loioba3ddae757584354af797ef0c278dde7 -->

# Defining a Capture Profile for Sizing

With the *Capture Request Statistics* app, you can capture request statistics to find out which activities are running in your ABAP system. For sizing, you can define a capture profile that records defined activities of a business user or business process.



<a name="loioba3ddae757584354af797ef0c278dde7__prereq_qfx_b25_tqb"/>

## Prerequisites

You've defined one or multiple test cases to measure the workload of sizing-relevant business processes \(see [Defining Test Cases for Sizing](defining-test-cases-for-sizing-0e95d18.md)\).



## Context

With the definition and activation of a capture profile, you can capture system activities. Requests are recorded with technical information, such as response time, program name, or CPU time. The request statistics serve as input for ABAP system sizing using the *Perform System Sizing* app \(see [Performing System Sizing](performing-system-sizing-95bc2c1.md)\).

> ### Note:  
> In this documentation, the assumption is that workload for a particular business process is measured by capturing the request statistics generated by the activities of a business user who acts as a tester. With such a measurement approach, you define the profile that contains the technical user name of the tester and a time period reserved for testing.



<a name="loioba3ddae757584354af797ef0c278dde7__steps_qny_2f5_tqb"/>

## Procedure

1.  In the SAP Fiori launchpad of the ABAP environment, under *Technical Monitoring*, choose the *Capture Request Statistics* tile.

2.  Choose *Create*.

3.  Enter the following data:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Field


    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    What to enter


    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Profile ID*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    Enter a short, meaningful name for your profile. Don't use the prefix `SAP_` because this prefix is reserved for profiles predefined by SAP.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Description*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    If needed, you can enter a longer description of your profile.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Start/End Time*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    The start and end time specify when request statistics are captured by the app. Only requests are considered that are started after the start time of the profile and that end before the end time of the profile.

    If you use the capturing of request statistics to measure sizing, enter the planned start and end time of your test case.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Retention Time*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    Select how long you want to keep the captured request statistics stored in the system, for example, 14 days.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Record Limit*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    Enter the maximum number of records that you want the system to capture per minute, for example, 1,000 records.

    The record limit prevents that too much database memory is consumed by captured request statistics. The maximum possible record limit per minute is 1,000.

    > ### Note:  
    > To get a realistic idea of the workload, consider a relatively high record limit. However, you must keep in mind that you generate load on your system while request statistics are captured.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Target User Group*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    Choose one of the target groups starting with *Customer*.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Profile Type*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    This field is automatically populated by the system. Only static profile types \(with fixed values\) are possible.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">

    *Profile Owner*


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">

    The profile owner is automatically set to *Customer* when you create a new profile.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    
4.  Choose *Create*.

    The profile has been created, but is still inactive and has no filter conditions yet.

5.  To define the filter conditions under which request statistics are captured, choose *Create*.

6.  With *Field ID*, *Operator*, *High*, and *Low*, you can select a filter condition that determines what kind of data is captured.

    For example, if you want to capture all request statistics relating to your tester, select *User ID* as field ID, *include equal to* as operator and the technical user name of the tester.

7.  Choose *Create*.

8.  To enable capturing request statistics using the profile, choose *Activate*.


