<!-- loio523eb80f1e1b4c36908f35aea93cfc06 -->

# SAP\_COM\_0467

This document describes the configuration steps that have to be carried out by customers to set up the integration between SAP BTP, ABAP environment and local printers using SAP\_COM\_0467.



<a name="loio523eb80f1e1b4c36908f35aea93cfc06__section_lds_xpg_gjb"/>

## Purpose

The communication scenario `SAP_COM_0467` enables you to print from an SAP BTP, ABAP environment system on your locally installed printers. The scenario consists of an inbound OData API which is designed for third-party output management systems \(OMS\) to connect, as well as a REST outbound API for the notification of new documents to be printed. OMS provide you with more refined printing functionalities.



<a name="loio523eb80f1e1b4c36908f35aea93cfc06__section_t14_lqg_gjb"/>

## Prerequisites

-   You've installed an OMS.

-   You've configured a user in your OMS.

-   You have the following business role assigned to your user:

    -   `SAP_BR_ADMINISTRATOR`


-   This business role contains the following business catalogs:

    -   `Communication Management (SAP_CORE_BC_COM)`

    -   `Output Management (SAP_CORE_BC_OM_PRT)`





<a name="loio523eb80f1e1b4c36908f35aea93cfc06__section_j3v_rqg_gjb"/>

## Process Steps



1.  Log in to your SAP S/4HANA system. Go to the *Communication Management* section and start the app **Display Communication Scenarios**.

2.  Search for scenario ID `SAP_COM_0467` and click on it.

3.  Now click on *Create Communication Arrangement* in the top right corner.

4.  Choose a name for your communication arrangement and click *Create*.

5.  You will now need to create a communication system. You can do this by clicking *New* next to the field *Communication System*.

6.  Choose a new *System ID* and click *Create*.

    > ### Note:  
    > The *System Name* is filled in automatically with the same name as the ID. We recommend leaving this as it is to prevent confusion.

7.  In the *General* section enter the host name, the IP address, or the URL of your OMS. Leave the HTTPS port as it is.

8.  Now scroll down to *Users for Inbound Communication* and click "+" to add a new communication user.

9.  Click on *New User*. Enter a username and a description. You can then choose to either enter a new password or upload a client certificate by clicking on *Upload*. Click *Create* to save the user, then click *OK*.

10. Now scroll down to *Users for Outbound Communication* and click "+" to add a new communication user.

11. Enter the username and password you created in your OMS. Click *Create* to save the user, then click *OK*.

12. Save your communication system by clicking *Save* on the bottom right.

13. Scroll down to the *Outbound Services* section and enter the service path you got from your OMS provider in the field *Path*. The service url will be configured automatically.

14. Save your communication arrangement by clicking *Save* on the bottom right.

15. Now search for the *Maintain Print Queues* app, open it and select *New* to create a print queue of the type **OMS for Notification Integration Queue**.
16. Enter a name and a description for the queue. Choose a format and make sure to select the name you chose for your communication arrangement in step 4. Set the notification type: When print queue items are added to the queue, a notification call is sent out. Here you can decide whether you want notifications for a certain number of items or for every single new item. Leave the other settings as they are and save your test queue by clicking *Create*.

17. Scroll to the bottom of the print queue list window and copy the system URL, as you'll need it later on.

18. Open the test queue and create a couple of test pages by clicking *Create Test Page*. They'll have the status *New*.

19. **\(OMS\)**: Open your OMS and log in to the S/4 HANA system by using the system URL you copied in step 17 as well as the user and password created in step 9 and assign a physical printer to your print queue. Now you can print the test pages from your OMS. For details, please refer to the individual product documentation.
20. **\(SAP BTP, ABAP environment\)**: In the *Maintain Print Queues* app, your documents will now be labeled *Successful*.

