<!-- loio524c13a1340f4b4488032b8f44cd9e85 -->

# SAP\_COM\_0466

This document describes the configuration steps that have to be carried out by customers to set up the integration between SAP BTP, ABAP environment and local printers using SAP\_COM\_0466.



<a name="loio524c13a1340f4b4488032b8f44cd9e85__section_lds_xpg_gjb"/>

## Purpose

The communication scenario `SAP_COM_0466` enables you to print from an system on your locally installed printers. The communication scenario is designed to connect the *SAP Cloud Print Manager for Pull Integration* and third-party output management systems \(OMS\). OMS provide you with more refined printing functionalities.

> ### Note:  
> The term 'OMS' will stand for both an OMS as well as the *SAP Cloud Print Manager for Pull Integration* for the remainder of this document.



<a name="loio524c13a1340f4b4488032b8f44cd9e85__section_t14_lqg_gjb"/>

## Prerequisites

-   You've installed an OMS.

-   You have the following business role assigned to your user:

    -   `SAP_BR_ADMINISTRATOR`


-   This business role contains the following business catalogs:

    -   `Communication Management (SAP_CORE_BC_COM)`

    -   `Output Management (SAP_CORE_BC_OM_PRT)`





<a name="loio524c13a1340f4b4488032b8f44cd9e85__section_j3v_rqg_gjb"/>

## Process Steps



**\(SAP BTP, ABAP environment\)**

1.  Log in to your system and navigate to the *Display Communication Scenarios*app.

2.  Search for scenario ID `SAP_COM_0466` and click on it.
3.  Now click on *Create Communication Arrangement* in the top right corner.

4.  Choose a name for your communication arrangement and click *Create*.

5.  You will now need to create a communication system. You can do this by clicking *New* next to the field *Communication System*. For more information on general concepts of communication management, see [Communication Management](communication-management-2e84a10.md).

6.  Choose a new *System ID* and click *Create*.

    > ### Note:  
    > The *System Name* is filled in automatically with the same name as the ID. We recommend leaving this as it is to prevent confusion.

7.  In the *General* section, mark the *Inbound Only* checkbox.

8.  Now scroll down to *Users for Inbound Communication* and click "+" to add a new communication user.

9.  Click on *New User*. Enter a username and a description. You can then choose to either enter a new password or upload a client certificate by clicking on *Upload*. Click *Create* to save the user, then click *OK*.

10. Save your communication system by clicking *Save* on the bottom right, then save your communication arrangement the same way.

11. Now search for the *Maintain Print Queues* app, open it and select *New* to create a print queue of the type *Pull Integration Queue*.

    > ### Note:  
    > The selection of the print queue type is only possible if more types are available. If this is not the case, *Pull Integration* is automatically selected. In case more options are available, it is important to select the *Pull Integration* queue type for the scenario. You won't see the print queue in your OMS system if you choose the wrong queue type.

12. Enter a name and description for the queue. Choose a format and make sure to select the name you chose for your communication arrangement in step 3. Leave the other settings as they are and save your test queue by clicking *Create*.

13. Scroll to the bottom of the print queue list window and select *System URL*. Copy the URL, as you'll need it later on.

14. Open the print queue and create a couple of test pages by clicking *Create Test Page*. They'll have the status *New*.

15. **\(OMS\)**: Open your OMS and log in to the SAP BTP, ABAP environment system by using the system URL you copied in step 13 as well as the user and password created in step 8 and assign a physical printer to your print queue. Now you can print the test pages from your OMS. For details, please refer to the individual product documentation.
16. **\(SAP Cloud Print Manager for Pull Integration\)**: For more information on how to configure your SAP Cloud Print Manager for Pull Integration, see [Communication Management](../30-development/communication-management-5b8ff39.md#loio5b8ff39ddb6741a29ddfcf587939e8f4).
17. **\(SAP BTP, ABAP environment\)**: In the *Maintain Print Queues* app, your documents will now be labeled *Successful*.

