<!-- loio938e814ae7cc4706a26212abcff938cb -->

# Users



There are different categories of users for different purposes and with different capabilities. Business users represent end users performing day-to-day business tasks. They constitute personal data and their lifecycle is governed by retention and deletion policies.

Technical users are used in the background for system tasks such as inter-system communication, printing, and support.



<a name="loio938e814ae7cc4706a26212abcff938cb__section_BusinessUsers"/>

## Business Users

**Relation of Employees and Business Users**

Employees are metadata-records containing personal and employment-related data. Employees do not have access to the system directly, but only via corresponding business users.

A business user corresponds to a real-life person who works with the system interactively. It is a user with a business partner assignment \(either an employee or a contingent worker\). Business users are created to allow a person access to the system. You can maintain business users in the *Maintain Business Users*app. Authentication and logon for business users happens at the identity provider.

**Business User Authorizations and Monitoring**

You can assign business users to business roles in the*Maintain Business Roles* app. The main purpose of the app though is to create and adapt business roles.

Information about currently assigned business roles can be found in the *IAM Information System* app and the*IAM Key Figures* app.

**Business User Lifecycle**

Business users that haven’t been used for a certain time can be automatically locked. For more information, see *How to Lock Unused Business Users* in the *Related Information* section.

Retention and ultimate deletion of blocked business users is governed by the Information Lifecycle Management \(ILM\) component.



> ### Note:  
> Please note that ILM is not available in SAP BTP ABAP Environment.



<a name="loio938e814ae7cc4706a26212abcff938cb__section_TechnicalUsers"/>

## Technical Users

Technical users correspond to a local or remote process which is typically part of the cloud management process \(such as system provisioning, support\) or intrinsic system processes. There are technical users that belong to the software or service provider and there are technical users that belong to the customer.

You can get an overview of all technical users in the *Display Technical Users* app.

**Communication Users**

The communication user is a technical user type aimed at technical communication. A communication user corresponds to a remote system that connects to your own system. You can define communication users in the*Maintain Communication Users* app.

**Support Users**

Support users are a separate type of technical user for temporary access. These users are intended for SAP employees who access the system based on a support ticket from the customer. The *Display Technical Users* app shows which support users were created for the system on which incident.

**Related Information**  


[Maintain Business Users](maintain-business-users-e40e710.md "You use this app to provide business users with access rights and to maintain business user settings.")

[Maintain Business Roles](maintain-business-roles-8980ad0.md)

[IAM Information System](iam-information-system-82d17cf.md "With this app you can get an overview of business users in your system and what roles and restrictions are assigned to them.")

[IAM Key Figures](iam-key-figures-f249696.md)

[How to Lock Unused Business Users](how-to-lock-unused-business-users-a817aef.md "Lock inactive business users")

 <?sap-ot O2O class="- topic/link " href="e816a84e3c0c48e8bc63f45a1265245b.xml" text="" desc="" xtrc="link:6" xtrf="file:/home/builder/src/dita-all/jjq1673438782153/loio2080d0faf9d84ce6aa14caa4caa32935_en-US/src/content/localization/en-us/938e814ae7cc4706a26212abcff938cb.xml" output-class="" outputTopicFile="file:/home/builder/tp.net.sf.dita-ot/2.3/plugins/com.elovirta.dita.markdown_1.3.0/xsl/dita2markdownImpl.xsl" ?> 

 <?sap-ot O2O class="- topic/link " href="affed1d13fa44085b7440e3a98615bba.xml" text="" desc="" xtrc="link:7" xtrf="file:/home/builder/src/dita-all/jjq1673438782153/loio2080d0faf9d84ce6aa14caa4caa32935_en-US/src/content/localization/en-us/938e814ae7cc4706a26212abcff938cb.xml" output-class="" outputTopicFile="file:/home/builder/tp.net.sf.dita-ot/2.3/plugins/com.elovirta.dita.markdown_1.3.0/xsl/dita2markdownImpl.xsl" ?> 

 <?sap-ot O2O class="- topic/link " href="8c3f52b3993441e8b91ab77dc09d20f8.xml" text="" desc="" xtrc="link:8" xtrf="file:/home/builder/src/dita-all/jjq1673438782153/loio2080d0faf9d84ce6aa14caa4caa32935_en-US/src/content/localization/en-us/938e814ae7cc4706a26212abcff938cb.xml" output-class="" outputTopicFile="file:/home/builder/tp.net.sf.dita-ot/2.3/plugins/com.elovirta.dita.markdown_1.3.0/xsl/dita2markdownImpl.xsl" ?> 

[Display Technical Users](display-technical-users-7fb79d7.md "This app shows all technical users that exist in the system. To call the app, log on to your SAP Fiori launchpad and go to Identity and Access Management > Display Technical Users .")

[Maintain Communication Users](maintain-communication-users-eef80dd.md "You can use this app to create and edit communication users. Communication users are used by solutions to authenticate themselves to be able to post data.")

