<!-- loio95a410144d7c449687c957da0cc43a0d -->

# Kyma's Modular Approach

With Kyma's modular approach, you can add only the modules you need, instead of a predefined set of components.



<a name="loio95a410144d7c449687c957da0cc43a0d__section_hcb_l3t_cxb"/>

## Kyma Module or Component?

Classic Kyma runtime offered a fixed set of mandatory interdependent components whose development rhythm was synchronized and determined by the release schedule. One by one, all Kyma components have been converted to modules that work independently from each other.

The modular approach boosts Kyma's extensibility and scalability and makes it more cost-effective. With fully modularized Kyma, you can choose from many of its modules to facilitate your business needs best.  You can add or delete modules on demand and configure them, thus determining the costs generated by the infrastructure that your modules use.

You can decide which modules are needed for your workload, although some features may still require the presence of other modules or related capabilities. For example, the API Gateway module depends on Istio capabilities, but it doesn't require the Istio module from Kyma. Instead, the API Gateway module needs Istio custom resources, such as Gateway and VirtualService, to be present in the cluster. If you want to use your own Istio installation, the API Gateway module will use it as soon as the required resources are available.

Learn more about the available Kyma modules: [Kyma Modules](kyma-modules-0dda141.md).

Learn how to add a module under [Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module](../50-administration-and-ops/adding-and-deleting-a-kyma-module-1b548e9.md#loio1b548e9ad4744b978b8b595288b0cb5c).



<a name="loio95a410144d7c449687c957da0cc43a0d__section_kyma_release_channels"/>

## Kyma Release Channels

Sets of Kyma modules are deployed in two release channels:

-   *Regular channel* is the default release channel.

-   *Fast channel* provides more frequent releases. It offers early previews of all new features and changes before they are promoted to the regular channel. It also allows you to test and provide feedback on the new features sooner.


According to the Kyma modules\` release cycle, we first release a new module's major or minor version in the fast channel. After approximately two weeks, we promote the release to the regular channel.

> ### Note:  
> In case of important functionality fixes or critical vulnerabilities identified by our security organization, the timeline doesn't apply, as we provide hotfixes between regular releases.

You can use one or both release channels in your Kyma cluster, but you can define only one release channel per module. For example, you can mix different modules from the regular and fast channels in your development cluster, but you cannot deploy the same module in the regular and fast versions in one cluster.

> ### Note:  
> You can upgrade module versions, but you cannot downgrade them. To test the upstream versions, you can switch a module or an entire cluster from the regular channel to the fast one. To return to the regular channel, you must wait until the version you are using in the fast channel is promoted to the regular channel. Once the versions in both the fast and regular channels are the same, you can switch back to regular. Alternatively, you can delete and add your module from the regular channel.

To find out which module version is running in your cluster, go to [Kyma dashboard](https://dashboard.kyma.cloud.sap/clusters).



<a name="loio95a410144d7c449687c957da0cc43a0d__section_eqm_3qd_gzb"/>

## Release Notes

A release of a new module’s version is announced with a release note in [What’s New for SAP Business Technology Platform](https://help.sap.com/whats-new/cf0cb2cb149647329b5d02aa96303f56?locale=en-US&version=Cloud) for both, the fast and regular channels:

-   On the day of the release in the fast channel, a release note is published with the *Preview* label.

-   After approximately two weeks, the module version becomes available in the regular channel and the *Preview* label is removed.


For more details on the Kyma release schedule, see [3459911](https://me.sap.com/notes/3459911).

> ### Note:  
> In the What’s New for SAP Business Technology Platform, we also pre-notify users about breaking changes at least three months in advance. The release notes provide information on the actions required of users, as well as links to more detailed documentation or corresponding blog posts, including details on the opt-in solutions and migration timelines.
> 
> To receive notifications on breaking changes and other updates, subscribe to [What’s New for SAP Business Technology Platform](https://help.sap.com/whats-new/cf0cb2cb149647329b5d02aa96303f56?locale=en-US&Component=Kyma+Runtime).

**Related Information**  


[Kyma Functionalities](kyma-functionalities-4b83be9.md "SAP BTP, Kyma runtime and open source project &quot;Kyma&quot; offer slightly different functionalities and install a different set of components.")

