<!-- loio5551c5e4ef15482998adfbfa0aed7f6b -->

# Configure a Java Application for Logs and Traces

Configure the collection of log and trace messages generated by a Java application in the Cloud Foundry Environment.



<a name="loio5551c5e4ef15482998adfbfa0aed7f6b__prereq_eml_xt5_2fb"/>

## Prerequisites

-   You have installed and configured Maven.

-   You use SAP JVM 8 and your <JAVA\_HOME\> environment variable points to this location.

-   You do not have any SLF4J and logback JAR files in the application.


> ### Caution:  
> The JARs for the SLF4J and logback are included as part of the Tomcat and TomEE runtimes provided by the SAP Java buildpack. Packing them in the application could cause problems during class loading.

> ### Note:  
> It is the application's responsibility to ensure that logback is configured in a secure way in the cases when the application overrides the default logback configuration, included in the SAP Java buildpack, for example the logback appenders.



## Context

The recommended framework for logging is Simple Logging Facade for Java \(SLF4J\). To use this framework, you can create an instance of the *org.slf4j.Logger* class. You can use it to configure your Java application to generate logs and traces, and if appropriate set the logging or tracing level.



## Procedure

1.  Instruct Maven that the application should not package the SLF4J dependency.

    This dependency is already provided by the runtime, use the scope provided in order not to pack the slf4j-api in your application.

    ```
    <dependency>
     <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
     <artifactId>slf4j-api</artifactId>
     <version>1.7.12</version>
     <scope>provided</scope>
    </dependency>
    ```

2.  Import the SLF4J classes into the application code \(*org.slf4j.Logger* and *org.slf4j.LoggerFactory*\) and develop the log handling code.




> ### Sample Code:  
> ```
> import org.slf4j.Logger;
> import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
>  public void logging () { 
>                 final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(Log4JServlet.class); 
>                 logger.debug("this is record logged through SLF4J param1={}, param2={}.", "value1", 1); 
>                 logger.info("This is slf4j info"); 
> } 
> ```

**Related Information**  




