<!-- loio01186fae3a6f4e7d90db26f5f0ebee1c -->

# FAQ

APIRule CRD `v2` is the latest stable version. Version `v1beta1` has been deprecated and scheduled for deletion. See the frequently asked questions related to the migration process.



<a name="loio01186fae3a6f4e7d90db26f5f0ebee1c__section_jrt_cmv_4gc"/>

## Displaying an APIRule's Spec



### Why doesn't my APIRule contain any rules?

This APIRule is not migrated to version `v2`. Since version `v2` is now the default, when you request an APIRule, kubectl converts it to version `v2`. This conversion only affects the displayed resource’s textual format and does not modify the resource in the cluster. If the full conversion is possible, the `rules` field is presented in the output. However, if the conversion cannot be completed, the rules are missing, and the original rules are stored in the resource’s annotation `gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1-spec`. For more information, see [Retrieving the Complete spec of an APIRule in Version v1beta1](retrieving-the-complete-spec-of-an-apirule-in-version-v1beta1-fefeb7f.md).



### Why doesn't my APIRule contain a Gateway?

If your APIRule doesn't contain the Gateway when displayed using kubectl, this means that your APIRule is in version `v1beta1` and uses an unsupported Gateway format. The APIRule `v2` supports only the Gateway format `namespace/gateway-name`. When you try to display the APIRule `v1beta1` using kubectl, its textual format is converted to version `v2`. Since the Gateway format you're using is neither available in version `v2` nor `v1beta1`, it is not included in the output.



### How do I request an APIRule in a particular version?

Specify the version you want to request in the kubectl command.

To get version `v1beta1`, run:

```
kubectl get apirules.v1beta1.gateway.kyma-project.io -n $NAMESPACE $APIRULE_NAME -o yaml
```

To get version `v2alpha1`, run:

```
kubectl get apirules.v2alpha1.gateway.kyma-project.io -n $NAMESPACE $APIRULE_NAME -o yaml
```

To get version `v2`, run:

```
kubectl get apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io -n $NAMESPACE $APIRULE_NAME -o yaml
```

Version `v2` is the stored version, so kubectl uses it by default to display your APIRules, no matter if you specify version `v2` in the command or do not specify any version.



### Why doesn't Kyma dashboard display all my APIRules?

APIRule `v1beta1` deletion is divided into phases. As part of the first one, APIRule `v1beta1` support has been removed from Kyma dashboard. This means that you can no longer view, edit, or create APIRules `v1beta1` using Kyma dashboard. For more information on the deletion timeline for SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, see [APIRule v1beta1 Migration Timeline](apirule-migration-f8df238.md#loiof8df238618eb4858905c2b42fa4ec815__section_msj_d2c_hgc).



<a name="loio01186fae3a6f4e7d90db26f5f0ebee1c__section_f1x_zph_tgc"/>

## Checking an APIRule's Version



### Why does the `kubectl get` command return my APIRule in version `v2`?

APIRule `v2` is now the default version displayed by kubectl. This means that no matter in which version the APIRule was actually created in the cluster, kubectl converts the APIRule's displayed textual format to the latest stable version `v2`. It does not modify the resource in the cluster.



### How do I check which version of APIRule I'm using?

To check the version of your APIRule, run the following command:

```
kubectl get apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io -n $NAMESPACE $APIRULE_NAME -o yaml
```

The annotation `gateway.kyma-project.io/original-version` specifies the version of your APIRule.



<a name="loio01186fae3a6f4e7d90db26f5f0ebee1c__section_epw_wwh_tgc"/>

## Migrating an APIRule `v1beta1` to Version `v2`



### How do I know which APIRules must be migrated?

You must migrate all APIRules `v1beta1` to version `v2`. To list all your APIRules `v1beta1`, run the following command:

```
kubectl get apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io -A -o json | jq '.items[] | select(.metadata.annotations["gateway.kyma-project.io/original-version"] == "v1beta1") | {namespace: .metadata.namespace, name: .metadata.name}'
```



### If `kubectl get` returns an APIRule in version `v2`, does it mean that my APIRule is migrated to `v2`?

No. APIRule `v2` is now the default version displayed by kubectl. Kubectl converts the textual format of each APIRule, no matter what its original version is. So, if your APIRule is in version `v1beta1`, kubectl converts it to version `v2` and displays it in the command's output. This conversion does not affect the resource itself.

To verify if your APIRule is migrated, check the annotation `gateway.kyma-project.io/original-version`. If it specifies version `v2`, your APIRule is migrated. If the annotation is `gateway.kyma-project.io/original-version: v1beta1`, this means that the resource is in version `v1beta1` even though in the command line it is converted to match the `v2` specification.

> ### Note:  
> Do not manually change the `gateway.kyma-project.io/original-version` annotation. This annotation is automatically updated when you migrate your APIRule to version `v2`.



### I used `oauth2-introspection` in APIRule `v1beta1`. How do I migrate it to `v2`?

The `oauth2-introspection` handler is removed from APIRule `v2`. To migrate your APIRule that uses this handler, you must first deploy a service that acts as an external authorizer for Istio and then define the `extAuth` access strategy in your APIRule CR. See [Migrating APIRule v1beta1 of type oauth2\_introspection to version v2](migrating-apirule-v1beta1-of-type-oauth2-introspection-to-version-v2-394d18a.md).



### I used regexp in the paths of APIRule `v1beta1`. How do I migrate it to `v2`?

APIRule `v2` does not support regexp in the `spec.rules.path` field of APIRule CR. Instead, it supports using the *\{\*\}* and *\{\*\*\}* operators and the */\** wildcard. For more information, see [Changes Introduced in APIRule v2](changes-introduced-in-apirule-v2-aa34a4a.md).



### Why do I get a validation error for the legacy gateway format while trying to migrate to `v2`?

In APIRule `v2`, you must provide the Gateway using the format `namespace/gateway-name`. The legacy formats are not supported.



<a name="loio01186fae3a6f4e7d90db26f5f0ebee1c__section_rb2_bzh_tgc"/>

## Using APIRules `v1beta1`



### Why can't I create an APIRule `v1beta1` in a new cluster?

APIRule `v1beta1` deletion is divided into phases. In the second phase, you can no longer create APIRule `v1beta1` in new clusters. For more information on the deletion timeline for SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, see [APIRule v1beta1 Migration Timeline](apirule-migration-f8df238.md#loiof8df238618eb4858905c2b42fa4ec815__section_msj_d2c_hgc).



### Why are my APIRules `v1beta1` in the ***Warning*** state?

When a resource is in the ***Warning*** state, it signifies that user action is required. All APIRules `v1beta1` are set to this state to indicate that you must migrate these resources to version `v2`.

