<!-- loio656653021bc243c9aa807191d05c68bc -->

# FAQs



<a name="loio656653021bc243c9aa807191d05c68bc__section_hy3_xzx_ntb"/>

## Business Users



### 1. Why can't I see any Customer Data Browser objects in the app?

**Answer**: You do not have the authorization to view the objects. Please contact your administrator and ask them to grant the authorization you need to view the objects. For more information, see [Restrictions and App Behavior](restrictions-and-app-behavior-15fb03d.md).



### 2: How can I see the complete list of Customer Data Browser objects available with the app?

**Answer**: You can view the complete list of Customer Data Browser objects if you have admin-level authorization. Contact your administrator to get the complete set of authorizations. Please ask the administrator to select all values in the *Object Name* restriction field.



### 3. Why can't I find a particular CDS view or table in the list of Customer Data Browser objects?

**Answer**: Here are some possible reasons:

-   Your administrator has not granted you authorization to access this object, or
-   The particular object is not yet enabled for Customer Data Browser

Contact your administrator for the exact reason.



### 4. When trying to view the CDS view data, why do I get the message “**You either do not have the required authorization or there is no data to be displayed**”?

**Answer**: You get this message because:

-   Your administrator has not granted the required CDS view-specific authorizations \(business catalogs\) to your user. This means you cannot view the data of this CDS view.
-   Alternatively, your administrator has granted the required CDS view-specific authorizations \(business catalogs\) to your user, but there is no data to be displayed. So, the system displays the error message.

Contact your administrator to obtain the required CDS view-specific authorizations.



### 5. When trying to view the data of a table, why do I get the message "**No authorization to view object data**"?

**Answer**: You see this message when your administrator has not granted the Customer Data Browser-specific authorizations to your user to view the data of database tables.

Contact your administrator to obtain the required authorizations.

For more information, see [Restrictions and App Behavior](restrictions-and-app-behavior-15fb03d.md).



### 6. My administrator has maintained the required restrictions to view data of relevant tables or CDS views. However, I keep getting a message in the app that I am not authorized to view the data.

**Answer**: Inform your administrator that you do not have the authorization to view the specific tables or CDS views.

-   The user with the `SAP_BR_ADMINISTRATOR_DANA` role is assigned to a single copy of the`SAP_BR_ADMINISTRATOR_DANA` role \(either the original or a copy of original, we recommend creating a copy\). You can check the assignment in the [Maintain Business Users](../50-administration-and-ops/maintain-business-users-e40e710.md) app.
-   The *Write, Read, Value Help* restriction is maintained as **No Access**

To validate the values provided in the restrictions, see [Restrictions and App Behavior](restrictions-and-app-behavior-15fb03d.md).



<a name="loio656653021bc243c9aa807191d05c68bc__section_smc_ftx_stb"/>

## Administrators



### 1. As an administrator, how can I maintain restrictions for the Customer Data Browser app?

**Answer**: For detailed information about restrictions, see [Restrictions and App Behavior](restrictions-and-app-behavior-15fb03d.md).



### 2. As an administrator, how can I identify the CDS view-specific authorizations so that the user can view the data of a specific CDS view?

**Answer**: In the [SAP Business Accelerator Hub](https://api.sap.com/products/SAPS4HANACloud/cdsviews/cdsviews), choose *CDS Views* to see detailed information about published interface \(I\_\) CDS views.

If you have any issues identifying the necessary CDS view-specific authorizations, report an incident under the application component relevant to the CDS view.



### 3 I have maintained the required restrictions for the business user to view data of relevant tables or CDS views. However, the business user keeps getting a message in the app that there is no authorization to view the data.

**Answer**

-   Ensure that the user with the `SAP_BR_ADMINISTRATOR_DANA` role is assigned to a single copy of the`SAP_BR_ADMINISTRATOR_DANA` role \(either the original or a copy of original, we recommend creating a copy\). You can check the assignment in the [Maintain Business Users](../50-administration-and-ops/maintain-business-users-e40e710.md) app.
-   Ensure that the *Write, Read, Value Help* restriction is maintained as **No Access**

To validate the values provided in the restrictions, see [Restrictions and App Behavior](restrictions-and-app-behavior-15fb03d.md).



### 4: How can I grant authorization to the business user to view the complete set of Customer Data Browser objects available with the app?

**Answer**: You can provide unrestricted access to the business user by choosing the*Unrestricted Access* buttons in the *Object Name* window.

**Related Information**  


[Customer Data Browser](customer-data-browser-c570bf8.md)

[Application Overview](application-overview-2c8f2bd.md "")

[Read Access Logging](read-access-logging-1fcb706.md "")

[Security Audit Log](security-audit-log-d2167ac.md "")

[Getting Started](getting-started-dce4f9a.md "")

[Restrictions and App Behavior](restrictions-and-app-behavior-15fb03d.md "")

[Using the App](using-the-app-c222a96.md "")

