<!-- copydb6b63f8a36543d985dd0dfa641273bb -->

# Kyma Modules

With Kyma's modular approach, you can install just the modules you need, instead of a predefined set of components.



Pick the modules that best meet your business needs. You can add or delete modules on demand and configure them, thus determining the costs generated by the infrastructure that your modules use. To learn how, see [Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module](../50-administration-and-ops/adding-and-deleting-a-kyma-module-1b548e9.md#loio1b548e9ad4744b978b8b595288b0cb5c).

You can decide which modules are needed for your workload, although some features may still require the presence of other modules or related capabilities. For example, the API Gateway module depends on Istio capabilities, but it doesn't require the Istio module from Kyma. Instead, the API Gateway module needs Istio custom resources, such as `Gateway` and `VirtualService`, to be present in the cluster. If you want to use your own Istio installation, the API Gateway module will use it as soon as the required resources are available.

> ### Tip:  
> A release of a new module’s version is announced with a release note in [What’s New for SAP Business Technology Platform](https://help.sap.com/whats-new/cf0cb2cb149647329b5d02aa96303f56?locale=en-US&version=Cloud) for both, the fast and regular channels:
> 
> -   On the day of the release in the fast channel, a release note is published with the *Preview* label.
> 
> -   When the module version becomes available in the regular channel \(after approximately two weeks\), the *Preview* label is removed.
> 
> 
> For details, see [Kyma Module Releases](../10-concepts/kyma-module-releases-95a4101.md).
> 
> To find out which module version is running in your cluster, go to [Kyma dashboard](https://dashboard.kyma.cloud.sap/clusters).



<a name="copydb6b63f8a36543d985dd0dfa641273bb__section_y2m_kzd_nzb"/>

## Default Kyma Modules

When you create Kyma runtime in SAP BTP cockpit, it is provisioned with the default modules added. The default modules are not mandatory. If you don't need them, you can delete them in [Kyma dashboard](https://dashboard.kyma.cloud.sap/clusters). See [Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module](../50-administration-and-ops/adding-and-deleting-a-kyma-module-1b548e9.md#loio1b548e9ad4744b978b8b595288b0cb5c).

**Default Kyma Modules**


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Module

Technical Name

</th>
<th valign="top">

Purpose

</th>
<th valign="top">

Documentation

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Istio*

`istio`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Istio is a service mesh with Kyma-specific configuration.

</td>
<td valign="top">

[Istio Module](istio-module-26ffe00.md)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*API Gateway*

`api-gateway`

</td>
<td valign="top">

API Gateway provides functionalities that allow you to expose and secure APIs.

</td>
<td valign="top">

[kyma-project.io: API Gateway module](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/README)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*SAP BTP Operator*

`btp-operator`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Within the SAP BTP Operator module, BTP Manager installs the SAP BTP service operator that allows you to consume SAP BTP services from your Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes-native tools.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [SAP BTP Operator Module](sap-btp-operator-module-50347ea.md)
-   [What's New for SAP BTP Operator](https://help.sap.com/whats-new/cf0cb2cb149647329b5d02aa96303f56?Component=Kyma+Runtime&q=SAP+BTP+Operator&locale=en-US&version=Cloud#top)
-   [GitHub repository: BTP Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/btp-manager)



</td>
</tr>
</table>



<a name="copydb6b63f8a36543d985dd0dfa641273bb__section_zty_yc2_lzb"/>

## Optional Kyma Modules

When you create Kyma runtime in SAP BTP cockpit, the following modules are not added by default, but you can choose to add and delete them anytime in [Kyma dashboard](https://dashboard.kyma.cloud.sap/clusters). See [Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module](../50-administration-and-ops/adding-and-deleting-a-kyma-module-1b548e9.md#loio1b548e9ad4744b978b8b595288b0cb5c).

**Optional Kyma Modules**


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Module

Technical Name

</th>
<th valign="top">

Purpose

</th>
<th valign="top">

Documentation

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Application Connector*

`application-connector`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Application Connector allows you to connect with external solutions. No matter if you want to integrate an on-premise or a cloud system, the integration process doesn't change, which allows you to avoid any configuration or network-related problems.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Application Connector Module](application-connector-module-4dadebe.md)
-   [GitHub repository: Application Connector Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/application-connector-manager) 



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Cloud Manager*

`cloud-manager`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Cloud Manager brings cloud provider products and resources into the Kyma cluster in a secure way.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Cloud Manager Module](cloud-manager-module-617a1a9.md)
-   [GitHub repository: Cloud Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/cloud-manager)



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Eventing*

`eventing`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Eventing provides functionality to publish and subscribe to CloudEvents.

At the moment, the SAP Event Mesh default plan and NATS are supported. If you choose NATS, add the NATS module.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Configure SAP Event Mesh for Kyma Eventing](configure-sap-event-mesh-for-kyma-eventing-407d126.md)
-   [kyma-project.io: Eventing module](https://kyma-project.io/#/eventing-manager/user/README)
-   [GitHub repository: Eventing](https://github.com/kyma-project/eventing-manager) 



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Keda*

`keda`

</td>
<td valign="top">

The Keda module comes with Keda Manager, an extension to Kyma that allows you to install [KEDA](https://keda.sh) \(Kubernetes Event-Driven Autoscaler\).

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Keda Module](keda-module-2f69be2.md)



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*NATS*

`nats`

</td>
<td valign="top">

NATS deploys a NATS cluster within the Kyma cluster. You can use it as a backend for Kyma Eventing.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [kyma-project.io: NATS module](https://kyma-project.io/#/nats-manager/user/README)
-   [GitHub repository: NATS](https://github.com/kyma-project/nats-manager)



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Serverless*

`serverless`

</td>
<td valign="top">

With the Serverless module, you can define simple code snippets \(Functions\) with minimal implementation effort.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Serverless Module](serverless-module-eb84ff5.md)
-   [Serverless Configuration](serverless-configuration-4a0ae14.md)
-   [Deploy Workloads in the Kyma Environment to Extend SAP Systems](deploy-workloads-in-the-kyma-environment-to-extend-sap-systems-fe4ba5b.md)
-   [GitHub repository: Serverless](https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless-manager)



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Telemetry*

`telemetry`

</td>
<td valign="top">

The Telemetry module collects application logs and distributed traces for your application, and dispatches them to your preferred backends.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Telemetry Module](telemetry-module-87ec550.md)
-   [What's New for Telemetry](https://help.sap.com/whats-new/cf0cb2cb149647329b5d02aa96303f56?Component=Kyma%20Runtime&locale=en-US&version=Cloud&Valid_as_Of=2023-09-08%3A2099-12-31&q=Telemetry#top)
-   [GitHub repository: Telemetry](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager)



</td>
</tr>
</table>



<a name="copydb6b63f8a36543d985dd0dfa641273bb__section_jcm_gyz_jxb"/>

## Other SAP Modules

These modules are developed and maintained by SAP teams outside of Kyma. To get help or request a feature, contact the module provider directly.

**Other SAP Modules**


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Module

Technical Name

</th>
<th valign="top">

Purpose

</th>
<th valign="top">

Documentation

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Transparent Proxy*

`transparent-proxy`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Use the transparent proxy for Kubernetes to connect workloads in a Kubernetes cluster to Internet and on-premise applications.

</td>
<td valign="top">

-   [Transparent Proxy in the Kyma Environment](https://help.sap.com/docs/connectivity/sap-btp-connectivity-cf/transparent-proxy-in-kyma-environment?version=Cloud)



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Connectivity Proxy*

`connectivity-proxy`

</td>
<td valign="top">

Use the connectivity proxy for Kubernetes to connect workloads in a Kubernetes cluster to on-premise systems, exposed via the Cloud Connector.

</td>
<td valign="top">

[On-Premise Connectivity in the Kyma Environment](https://help.sap.com/docs/connectivity/sap-btp-connectivity-cf/on-premise-connectivity-in-kyma-environment?version=Cloud)

</td>
</tr>
</table>



