<!-- loio4783e94ccd794367b92fa80b337a7319 -->

# NFS

Cloud Manager NFS feature enables creation of RWX volumes, allowing multiple workloads to use the same storage.

The Cloud Manager module enables a Network File System \(NFS\) feature which allows you to create ReadWriteMany \(RWX\) volumes. While regular persistent disk volumes can't be shared and can be used by only a single workload, RWX volumes can be used by multiple workloads.

> ### Remember:  
> Using the Cloud Manager module and enabling NFS storage, introduces additional costs. For more information, see [Calculation with the Cloud Manager Module](../10-concepts/service-plans-and-metering-for-kyma-runtime-c33bb11.md#loioc33bb114a86e474a95db29cfd53f15e6__section_cloud_manager).



<a name="loio4783e94ccd794367b92fa80b337a7319__section_ygq_wwt_g2c"/>

## Cloud Providers

When you create an NFS instance in SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, you depend on the cloud provider of your Kyma cluster. The cloud provider in use determines the exact implementation.

The Cloud Manager module supports the NFS feature of the following cloud providers:

-   Amazon Web Services [Amazon Elastic File System](https://aws.amazon.com/efs)
-   Google Cloud [Filestore](https://cloud.google.com/filestore?hl=en)

To create and configure a Cloud Manager's NFS instance, use a dedicated NFS custom resource \(CR\) corresponding with the cloud provider for your Kyma cluster, namely AwsNfsVolume CR or GcpNfsVolume CR. For more information, see [NFS Resources](cloud-manager-resources-2389f6f.md#loio2389f6fb57f6469aba747129e7959d24__section_vcw_bzw_mdc).



<a name="loio4783e94ccd794367b92fa80b337a7319__section_h3c_fxt_g2c"/>

## **Prerequisites**

To instantiate NFS, an IpRange CR must exist in the Kyma cluster. IpRange defines network address space reserved for your cloud provider's NFS resources. If you don't create the IpRange CR manually, Cloud Manager creates a default IpRange CR with the default address space and Classless Inter-Domain Routing \(CIDR\) selected. For more information, see [IP Range](cloud-manager-resources-2389f6f.md#loio2389f6fb57f6469aba747129e7959d24__section_sc3_czw_mdc).



<a name="loio4783e94ccd794367b92fa80b337a7319__section_e2g_jxt_g2c"/>

## **Lifecycle**

AwsNfsVolume and GcpNfsVolume are namespace-level CRs. Once you create a GcpNfsVolume or AwsNfsVolume resource, the following resources are also created automatically:

-   IpRange CR
    -   IpRange is a cluster-level CR.
    -   Only one IpRange CR can exist per cluster.
    -   If you don't want the default IpRange to be used, create one manually.

-   Persistent Volume \(PV\)
    -   PV is a cluster-level piece of storage.
    -   The PV uses a unique name based on the NFS instance status ID.
    -   The PV references the instantiated NFS in the respective cloud provider.

-   Persistent Volume Claim \(PVC\)
    -   PVC is a namespace-level resource created in the same namespace as the IpRange CR.
    -   By default, the PVC's name is the same as the name of your NFS instance unless you specify a different name.
    -   The PVC references the automatically created PV.


**Related Information**  


[kyma-project.io: Using NFS in Amazon Web Services](https://github.com/kyma-project/cloud-manager/blob/main/docs/user/tutorials/01-20-10-aws-nfs-volume.md)

[kyma-project.io: Using NFS in Google Cloud](https://github.com/kyma-project/cloud-manager/blob/main/docs/user/tutorials/01-20-20-gcp-nfs-volume.md)

[NFS Resources](cloud-manager-resources-2389f6f.md#loio2389f6fb57f6469aba747129e7959d24__section_vcw_bzw_mdc)

[Calculation with the Cloud Manager Module](../10-concepts/service-plans-and-metering-for-kyma-runtime-c33bb11.md#loioc33bb114a86e474a95db29cfd53f15e6__section_cloud_manager)

